We have already seen how to create methods inside a class.
So now we're able to receive parameters as input and modify the state of an instance.
For example, there attributes in this lecture we are going to learn that there is something called
decorators which will allow us to create different types of methods, instance methods or normal methods,
which are the ones we have learned so far.
We also have class methods which are created using the decorator at class method and static methods
which are created using the decorator at Static Method.
The instance methods are those that we have already learned.
They can be created using death and passing self as an instance parameter.
They are methods that once they have been created they can be called and they're able to do things like
access and modify the attributes of the object, access other methods or modify the class state since
the class can be accessed from each object.
Secondly, we have the class methods.
These are defined by placing before at class methods and in their parameters they would put CLS, which
stands for class instead of putting self.
These methods are not associated to the instances of our class, but to the class itself, the entire
thing.
Therefore, they can be called not only from an instance of our class, but also directly from that
class.
These methods, unlike instance methods, cannot access instance attributes, but they can modify the
class attributes.
And we're going to see this all in PY charm in just a moment.
Finally, with static methods, these can be defined with the static method decorator decorator and
do not accept either self or class as a parameter.
That's why they can't modify cannot modify the state of neither the class nor the instance.
But of course they can accept input parameters.
Therefore the use of static methods can be very useful to indicate that a method will not be able to
modify the state of the instance or that class.
In other words, the static methods could be seen as normal functions of those that we would use outside
of a class, with the exception that these are linked to a concrete class.
This is the theoretical explanation, but I think it will be easier if we see these three types of method
and their particularities over in PY charm.
In order to put these three types of methods into practice, we'll keep using our bird class, which
has its attributes and its methods.
So we just saw in the introduction the methods we have here are instance methods because they affect
self.
That is, each of the instances we create for our BRD.
For example, these methods can access and change the object attributes.
So if we create a new method such as def paint black.
It will be in charge of painting every bird black.
In other words, this method will access and modify the instance attributes.
This method will add the black value to self color regardless of the color it has in the moment.
Will demonstrate by printing a string that says Now the bird is and we'll call self dot color.
And after the declaration of Tweety, in spite of being yellow, will use the paint black method.
So let's execute it and we'll read.
Now the bird is black done.
The instance method can access and change the object attributes.
Instance methods can also access other methods.
For example inside fly will call chirp as well.
So there are bird tweets besides flying.
So we type self here in order to access our instance and we call the method chirp, which doesn't require
attributes.
Now here Tweetie will call the method fly instead of paint black, and we'll pass 164 feet as value
and execute it.
Look, the bird flies 164 feet high and then it says Tweet.
So instance methods can call other methods.
Given that a class can be accessed from each object, the class state can also be modified.
So suppose that in Tweety we call Wings, which is a property corresponding to the class, not the instance,
and we change its value.
Now wings will have false as value.
We'll imagine Tweety doesn't have any wings.
Poor thing.
Okay, let's print this to see how it looks.
I type Tweety Dot wings, and if I execute it, it will read false.
Which means that from Tweety I could modify a value that corresponds to the whole class.
These are instance methods we've already learned about them, but here we could delve a little deeper
into their properties.
So now we'll deal with class methods.
Let's see what they are.
So we said that class methods are declared with a decorator, which is the apt symbol.
Now let's type class method and we'll create one of these methods.
Declare it with the keyword def and imagine a method named lay eggs which includes brackets.
And notice that python will automatically enter seals instead of self like it used to do.
So it's done so because I declared using the symbol a class method so it isn't related to instances
but to the class itself.
So we'll make this method require one more argument such as number, which would be the number of eggs
laid by a bird.
Lay eggs will only print a string literal that says it laid.
And now we open a call to number of eggs.
All right.
This is a class method.
So how do we execute it?
First.
Imagine that Tweetie doesn't exist.
Let's delete it.
Now there's no bird instance.
However, if I call the bird class, I will have the lay eggs method available.
So we'll type a number here.
Say it.
Laid three eggs and now let's execute it.
And it reads it laid three eggs.
Note that if I call bird again to use an instance method such as chirp and I execute it, I won't be
able to tweet.
The software doesn't allow it, so why not?
Because that's an instance method.
And the software is missing the positional argument itself, which isn't there.
This is why class methods are different.
They don't need an instance in order to be executed.
Therefore, these methods cannot access the instant attributes which in this case are colour and species.
If I printed something else inside this method, such as a string literal that says the bird is and
called color typing self color.
I would get an error.
The software doesn't allow me to enter self color because lay eggs doesn't receive self as an argument
but class.
So we can't appeal to color using a class method.
You can access and modify class attributes through class methods.
If instead of calling self, I call CLS wings, which is a class argument, and so I have access to
it.
I can even change it to false.
And if I print it through bird wings.
Then execute it.
It will read false.
Well, it's also said it laid three eggs because the method is here.
However, it says false because I was able to modify this attribute through this method, which is a
class method.
I couldn't modify the instant attributes, but the class attributes, which is logical.
Last but not least, will deal with static methods.
We'll close this so as to have more room and we'll enter after class method at static method.
Static methods are also defined with def and we have to name them as well.
Suppose that we want a method that makes our bird look.
Let's name it look.
Then we add brackets and please note that neither class nor self were automatically entered.
That's because static methods aren't related to classes and instances, so these methods cannot modify
an instance state.
So if I want to call Self Scholar I can type it, but I'll get an error.
So if I want it to be equal to red, I can't do that because these methods don't modify instances or
class attributes.
If I want to call CLS wings, well, I can type it.
Yes.
And I can also say that it is equal to two, but CLS will keep on returning an error.
So I won't be able to execute this code because static methods can't access class or instance attributes.
So what are they used for?
If you want to be sure that some methods won't modify your objects and instances, this is the best
way to do it.
For instance, we can enter, print the bird looks and here we call the bird look and execute it.
The bird looks.
I could use this method because it doesn't require that I use class or instance arguments.
This is all regarding method types.
These concepts can be a bit confusing and advise you to go over the lecture if you're not sure about
something.
Download the documents and solve the following activities before moving forward to the next lecture.
And I'll go there now.
I'll see you there.